(upbeat music)
(keyboard keys clicking)
In this video, we're gonna go ahead,
and download and instal IntelliJ IDEA,
which is the editor or the IDE,
that we're gonna be using in this course,
for our programmes.
Now, this particular video is for Windows platform.
Now if you're running a Mac, or you're running on Linux,
there are separate videos for both those operating systems,
in this section of the course,
so refer to those videos as appropriate,
if you're on Windows you're in the right place.
So the first thing to do is to go,
to the website jetbrains.com.
(computer keys clicking)
That's the site or the creators,
of this IntelliJ IDEA product that we're gomna be using.
Once you get there,
you come down here and click on IntelliJ if it's showing,
if by chance, its not trying for some reason,
go to IDE or IDEs and click on IntelliJ IDEA.
Either way, click on that link to go to that page.
Next option is to click on Download.
You're then presented with two options,
to download either the Ultimate Edition,
or the Community Edition.
Now I'm going to go ahead,
and download the Community Edition,
and we're gonna talk a little bit about it,
once it's downloading, just to save a bit of time.
I clicked on Download as you saw,
that should pop up, you can see down the bottom.
I'm going to click on Save to save that.
I'm just gonna go back, just to show you the page,
with the Ultimate Edition and the Community Edition,
and just talk about both versions there.
Now the Ultimate Edition is the commercial product.
So if you want to use that past a trial period,
you'll need to pay money for it,
and you'll need to pay JetBrains for that.
The Community Edition on the other hand is completely free,
and you'll never have to pay anything for it.
It can make a good choice in many cases
to take the free and open source version,
but if you do want to have access,
to other commercial features for example,
Java Enterprise Edition,
and using other frameworks that aren't compatible,
or aren't available in the free version,
the Community Edition, you can take this option here.
With the Ultimate Edition there's a 30 day trial option.
You can try it out for free for 30 days,
and then after that,
ordinarily you'd would have to pay for it.
What I can do is extend that trial by another 90 days.
So in other words, a total of 120 days.
If you're interested in that,
there's actually a lecture in this section,
that shows you how to get a special key
that you'll need to basically paste,
into the Ultimate Edition to get the extra trial,
the extra 90 days.
So refer to that if you decide,
to download the Ultimate Edition.
Otherwise, as you saw me do in this video,
I've downloaded to the Community Edition,
and that will certainly work okay in this course.
All right, so now that that's downloaded,
I'm going to click on Run.
So depending on your browser, you might need to navigate,
to the folder where you've downloaded it.
In any event, start up the installer.
In this case I've clicked Run,
and it's gonna to give us the option to start installing,
and I'm gonna close the browser down now,
and I'm gonna go through and follow the setup process.
I'm gonna click on Next.
I'm going to just assume,
or select or use the default location,
the destination folder, no need to change that.
Now the other option you'll need to know,
is whether you're running,
a 32 bit or 64 bit version of Windows.
Now in the previous video,
I've shown you how to do that in the JDK,
the Java Development Kit video,
I showed you how to determine,
whether you're running a 32 bit or 64 bit.
So depending on now what you found
when you're downloading that video,
select the relevant option.
In my case, I was running a 64 bit edition.
So I'm gonna select that, obviously you'd select a 32 bit,
if that's what you're running,
or your Windows is running on the 32 bit version.
And I suggest you click these three associations,
these check boxes and that just enables,
those particular languages,
those files that've got that file extension,
to be opened up in IntelliJ.
That's usually what you wanna do.
And then click on Next,
click on Instal,
and that's now going ahead and installing IntelliJ IDEA.
I'm just gonna fast forward this video now,
to save a bit of time,
and we come back after it's finished installing.
All right, so you can see it's just about finished now.
We'll just let that finish off.
All right, so it's now actually finished.
The next option is just to click on the checkbox,
so we can run IntelliJ.
That's irrespective of whether,
you've downloaded the Ultimate, or in this case,
the Community Edition,
Click on that and click on Finish.
It's gonna start up IntelliJ for us.
Now usually you'll see this option,
and it's coming up telling us that we've got an option,
to try and import some settings.
Now this would be useful if you're running IntelliJ,
or you have installed a previous version,
and you wanna retain the settings that you've configured.
In this case I haven't actually installed IntelliJ,
on this computer,
and this is most likely the option you'll see.
So you can click on Do not import settings.
Otherwise there's a location,
usually selected or found by IntelliJ,
and you could select that,`
and get IntelliJ to import those settings,
and use them in your installation of IntelliJ.
But in my case, I'm gonna just leave the default,
Do not import settings and click OK.
All right next,
we need to go through a configuration section,
to just set up some settings,
and to tell IntelliJ what options we want.
This is the theme and you can see the one on the left,
has got a white background,
the one on the right has got a darker background.
We can choose either.
So select which one you would prefer to work with,
knowing that you can always change it later.
I'm going to select the one with the white background
and click on Next.
Now there's a series of plugins on the screen,
and you can choose all sorts of things.
what I suggest you do generally,
is leave this as it is now and come back later,
if you decide you want to instal plugins.
Just the other thing to note is,
if you're running the Ultimate version of IntelliJ,
you'll actually have more options to instal plugins.
I'm just gonna click on Next.
Same deal here if we want to change,
or instal these two things,
which we aren't going to use,
in this particular course,
you can do that now.
But I'm going to skip both of those,
and click on Start using IntelliJ IDEA.
You can see that that's loaded up IntelliJ.
Now the next step we need to do,
is actually configure the Java Development Kit.
We need to do that,
so that we can actually programme in this course,
so the way to do that is to click on Configure,
and click on Project Defaults,
and then select Project Structure.
And that'll bring us to this screen,
and if you don't see Project SDK showing there,
you might have check boxes in another area.
So just make sure you click the Project,
and that will show that and click on the drop down,
just to see whether there's been one configured,
but in my case you can see it says No SDK.
SDK meeting software development kit.
So what we need to do is create one,
so that we can actually programme within IntelliJ.
So what we're gonna need to do,
is basically associate the Java Development Kit,
that we've installed previously, with IntelliJ.
So to do that, I'm going to click on New.
I'm gonna select JDK.
Now what we need to do is navigate
to the folder where we installed the Java Development Kit.
And I did talk about that,
in the Java Development Kit installation video.
The need to know where that was installed.
And if you recall that on my machine in that video,
it was installed in the Programme Files folder.
So navigate to that folder and go into the Java sub folder,
and you'll see that there's two folder locations,
the JDK and the JRE,
and this number may change,
depending on when you're watching this video.
But the one you wanna to select is the JDK,
then go ahead and click on JDK,
and click on OK.
Just before I click on OK,
it's important to have a look
and make sure that you selected Programme Files,
and not Programme Files x86,
cause there's two directories in there,
that are very similar,
and you can see there's this Programme Files x86.
If I open that up and have a look,
you see that there's no Java folder there.
So common question will come up from students,
not being able to find the Java folder,
and that's because they're looking in the Programme Files x86.
But in my case, close it back up again.
We're in the right place here.
We're in the Programme Files Java
and I've clicked on the JDK.
And make sure you don't click on the JRE,
because we need the JDK because that's the development kit,
which includes the extra tools,
that we need to be able to programme.
So I'm going to click on OK with that selected,
and you can see now the Project SDK has been changed here.
In the past it was No SDK but now we've got an option there.
So if that got selected automatically
make sure that is selected.
And the next thing you want to do here
is make sure that Project Language Level,
we can actually see that it says SDK default 8.
So it is possible to choose other versions,
but you won't need to do that at this time.
Leave that particular version selected,
so we don't need to change anything else on this page.
We're gonna click on OK.
We've got a few other settings that we need to configure,
and then we can actually move on to start,
working with programme code.
So we come back here and click on Configure.
I'm gonna click on Settings.
Once we've done that,
we're gonna actually come over here,
then into Editor.
We'll expand that out,
I'm gonna click and expand General,
and we're gonna do two things.
Firstly when I click on Auto Import,
you wanna make sure that both,
Add unambiguous imports on the fly is clicked,
and Optimise imports on the fly.
And that will just make your coding a little bit easier,
as we go through the course.
So I'm gonna apply that change.
The next to click on is Appearance,
and make sure that Show line numbers is selected.
Now it is actually showing as a default for me,
but if for some reason it wasn't checked,
make sure you do check that Show line numbers.
And once you've done that,
you can click on OK,
and we're actually done at this point.
So I'm gonna end the video here now,
and we can move on to the next video
and start making use of IntelliJ IDEA.